- [Narrator] Let's go ahead with the
Managed Scheduled Executor Service demo.
So the steps are listed on the slide.
Of course, it's the use case
for the health check of the app.
So the first step is add a REST class in the project
and assign path annnotation to it.
So let's go to IDE, and in this,
I'm going to create a class under the com.app.rest
and I'm going to label this URL
"HealthResource" let's say.
And let's add the path annotation to it.
And let's give it a value.
So let's say we're going to call this "urlCheck."
What's the next step?
Inject the Managed Scheduled Executor Service object
by the resource annotation and the REST will be.
So we have our server,
and we have the Concurrent Resources.
Let's go to Concurrent Resources
and Managed Scheduled Executor Service.
So the default object that the container anyway
provides you, the GlassFish server.
It's available to you right there.
So I'm gonna take that JNDI name,
copy it,
and come back to the IDE.
And inside this, I'm going
to have the Resource annotation inserted first.
And to this, I'm gonna pass a parameter lookup
which will be the JNDI name of
"ManagedScheduledExecutorService."
And then let's create a variable
which we'll tide up further "lookup."
So that will be "ManagedScheduledExecutorService."
The next step will be create
a runnable implementation URL processor
which will check whether the given URL is running or not.
So the health check will be the task.
So let's go ahead in the IDE and under "runnables"
create a "URLHealthProcessor."
Maybe that's a better name.
Let's say this is going to implement Runnable.
So you'll have to basically implement the run method,
and get rid of the default implementation.
So, what are we going to do here?
We are basically going to
check the health of the application.
And it's a very simple health check that we're doing.
We're just taking a URL,
trying to access the URL via the Java.net APIs,
and then it'll come back with a response to us.
If the response is 200,
we say that "yes, the URL is working."
If not, then there's a failure.
So, the URL is down.
That's what we're going to do.
So, let's go ahead and take one instance variable here.
Or let's say maybe "private static final String"
and that'll be "urlName."
So we don't need an instance variable.
We're just going to have a final string
which is the urlName.
Okay?
So let's say I'm going to take "http,"
let's check out the health of Google itself.
Let's see whether Google is up and running all the time.
So, up next what we have to do is,
on line #18 inside the run method,
let's first create one variable which we'll denote
"statusOfApp."
Let's initialize it to an empty value.
And then next is we're going to create
an object of the URL class.
Now, this is going to come from the Java.net APIs.
That's the package.
Java.net.
Let's create an instance, say "new URL."
And let's feed the urlName that we have already
declared as a constant up there.
So, yes.
That's what it is.
Once we do this,
let's get hold of HttpURLConnection
which is also going to come from the Java.net package
and let's take a reference for this.
And on that URL object that we created,
the instance on line #22,
on that there's a method which is "openConnection."
So, this returns an object.
I will have to make sure that we cast it correctly
to the HttpURLConnection
because http request is what we're trying to make here.
Once that is done,
we also have to make sure
that the connection has got a request method set.
So, setRequestMethod,
that's the API,
and we will say that we're just making
a "GET" request to this URL.
We just have to make a "GET" request
and see whether it is running.
And then, we'll take the connection object
and we call the connect API.
Once that's done, on line #27,
I'm going to take an integer variable
which is going to signify the responseCode.
And responseCode is going to come out of the
connection's getResponseCode API call.
That's the one.
Once this is done, I'm gonna check whether
the responseCode is equal to 200.
So, if it is, then the status of the app will be
"Yes, it is working!"
In case it is not going to be 200,
which means we were not able
to have that application up and running,
so in that case we will just go ahead and say
statusOfApp as "Sorry!
Something went wrong."
So we have basically set the status.
It is a string variable
and according to the response, of course, that's received
from the connection's connect method,
we are going to fix the status
and at the end of it, let's just go
and print the status.
So I'm going to put a simple SYSOUT,
and say, "Status of the app"
and just "up and" the statusOfApp variable.
Now, of course, this Java.net APIs
is going to throw me some checked exceptions
so let's Surround the Block with try-catch.
And let's make sure that the variable that you want
to use throughout the method is outside the try block.
So on line #25, I'm going to cut that line
and put it outside "try" on line #24.
And then there are several other exceptions
where we're just going to add the catch clause.
Yeah.
So it will either be MalformedURLException,
where it's not able to have the URL, right?
Some problem with the URL.
Or IOException, it's not basically able
to even have that IO operation made.
So, once that's done...
So, this looks good.
What is the next step?
The next step is add a method to the REST Class
and call the scheduled method
of Managed Scheduled Executor Service.
And then we have to test the taskout,
but we'll do that in the next video.